well howdy there internet people as Bo
again so today we're going to talk about
the American farmer and how they've got
to be looking round right now it's
saying that well it's getting curiouser
and curiouser so the trade war been kind
of overshadowed by recent events but
China is our third fourth or fifth
largest market for farm goods depending
on which economist you talk to they have
said that they're going to no longer buy
agricultural products that's huge that's
huge
how huge in 2017 before the tariffs took
effect
they bought nineteen point five billion
dollars worth twenty eighteen nine point
two loss of ten billion dollars that was
going to the American farmer now that
number is zero now that number is zero
that's huge that's huge and it's gonna
have a long lasting effect because food
isn't like an iPad you know if you go to
buy an iPad it cost a little bit more
you wait a month
you got to buy food so today already
there are deals that are in effect now
between Brazil and China first away
beans China bought sixty percent of US
soybean exports
and now those exports are gone and these
deals they're not like for a week for a
year so once this trade war is over even
if it ends next month the effects are
going to be felt for a long time and
even once the trade war is over now it's
not a matter of we already have a deal
with these people the American farmer
has to compete to get that business back
business they had and now it's gone zero
nineteen point five billion to zero yeah
there are subsidies that are going to
help the farmers the problem with that
is most farmers don't really want
subsidies they don't that's not how they
want to live their life banks don't like
subsidies they don't like to lend
because they don't know if you're gonna
get it again that's not how they like to
do business they want to see the books
which means it's gonna be hard to get
loans which means John Deere is gonna
get hit this is gonna have a big effect
on Trump I think in 2020 a political
analyst you're like well you know they
have red hats they're stupid yeah well
they know what their pocketbook looks
like and I think that's gonna have a
bigger impact then people are saying a
state like Iowa who goes blue a lot
Trump pointed by a pretty huge margin in
2016 Iowa is soybean country and they
have John Deere factories they're gonna
get hit hard by this hard
and the tariffs are taking their toll in
other places I guess from the start of
the trade war up until June it was 27
billion dollars in extra costs that the
American taxpayer wound up paying
jo-ann fabrics this is because in much
longer they're looking at store closings
and job eliminations the CEO of the
American textile company said that as
prices go up and demand decreases it is
affect American jobs will be lost anyway
it's just a fault y'all have a good
night